ArticleAtlas makes use of Cesium, a platform that enables web developers to display 3D global visualizations. To begin, we created an account with Cesium that gave us an access token to the service, which allowed us to display a viewer - a frame in which the globe is displayed - on our main page. We initialized the viewer with the default terrain and map projection.

We also constructed a .csv file using Google Sheets, made up of a database containing country ids, latitude and longitude coordinates, country names, as well as article URLs, titles, sources, and images from Google News. In app.py, we parsed the .csv file to obtain a two-dimensional list in Python, which we then sent to the globe.html file. In globe.html, we parsed the list using Jinja to create a string representation of a JSON file containing the information in countries.csv, which we then reverted to an array of strings, where every set of 8 strings corresponded to a country's information. We did this by splitting the string wherever there was a comma, since the values were separated by commas. However, this meant that any commas in the values we wanted had to be replaced by another symbol in the .csv file, so that values containing commas would not be split. As a result, we initially replaced all commas with (). Later on in the script, we replaced all () with commas so that they would again be displayed in the text on the website. All in all, this was the quickest way we found to loop through all of the countries' data and display it on the webpage. 

To display the markers for each country on the map, we took each country's latitude and longitude and used the coordinates to create a marker entity in Cesium. We were able to style the marker and its label, as well as use the description property in Cesium to display the article's corresponding image on the left and its title and source on the right. We found that clicking on the article's title to open it in a new tab offered the best functionality. We also implemented the ability to share an article via email by adding a clickable email icon that created an email draft with the article's URL inside it.

Both our globe.html and about.html pages were bookended with information from layout.html, which used Jinja and Bootstrap to display a navbar at the top of the page. We edited styles.css to make the Cesium viewer's position on the webpage more aesthetically pleasing, and created a globe icon to serve as the pin image for our page. We also created an about page with pictures of us after completing the project.

We used Heroku to collaborate on our program and host it. We push changes to our app to the main branch in Heroku, and pull from that branch to access changes the other partner made. We also host it through heroku, allowing us to have an easily accessible website with a simple enough URL. 

In our original project description, we had hoped to pull our articles from a service called NewsAPI, rather than manually selecting them from Google News, which would have allowed us to display up-to-date news in each country's information box. Unfortunately, after many hours spent trying to request information from NewsAPI for our site, we found that there was a paywall preventing us from making more than 100 requests a day, which was not ideal for our website because we wanted articles for more than 100 countries. As a result, we decided on the more feasible Google News option.